Here I have a function recursive function that is calling itself.
There are three statements, FUSA statement, there is something and then its calling itself and there
is one more statement.
So the question is when this statement will execute, this will execute at calling time and then this
escapement will execute.
It will execute at returning time.
And if anything is there followed by this function, then that will also execute at returning time,
only if any computations are there any more things are done.
So that's it.
So from this, like you can take it as a formula in the recursive function called before the function
call.
If anything is there, then that will be executed at calling time.
After the function call it is executed at a turning point.
So we can call this portion as ascending and this we can call it descending.
So recursive functions have two phases that are ascending and descending.
So the main important thing that we have learned now is that the recursion will have two phases.
Let us compare recursion with loop loops are repeating statement, then what is recursion?
Recursion is also repeating see a function gone, then I guess it is calling again.
It is calling.
So is it not repeating?
Yes.
Recursion is also just like repeating.
But the difference is a loop will have only ascending phase, but the recursion will have ascending
as well as descending phase.
So that is the strength or power of recursion that you can utilize or exploit it for writing code easier.
So these two phases are there.
So the descending is there only in recursion.
So that's all I end here in this video.
Then the next video, I'll show you how stock is used in these two recursive functions and also I'll
show you the time complexity.
So we'll continue with the same functions in the next few days.